# Introduction to Machine Learning 2

University of Amsterdam / Programming Lab / 50822ITM6Y

## Staff

Tim Doolan (coordinator)

Simon Pauw (teacher)

Wouter Vrielink (teacher)

Kiki van Rongen (TA)

You can reach us at <minorai@mprog.nl> for any practical matters or other
questions.

## Course content

This course consists of 6 modules. Each of these modules is expected to take 1
week and will focus on exploring one or more techniques from machine learning.
In general, there will be 4 components to each module:

* **Theory videos:** These will mostly introduce the required machine learning concepts for the topics that week.
* **SOWISO:** An online platform we'll use to cover foundational mathematical concepts that are the driving force behind a lot of the algorithms we'll explore.
* **Programming Notebook:** Here you will implement some of the machine learning algorithms yourself in *Python*.
* **Written Assignment:** Here you'll read articles or blog posts related to the philosophical and societal implication of ML, and answer questions about them.

Log in with your UvAnetID and create an account to get access to the modules.

## Deadlines

All assignments in a module should be handed in the following week by *Monday 23:59*.

If you think you will not make a deadline, send us an email *before* the
deadline has expired, so we can try to find a suitable solution. 

## Asking questions

If you have any question about the material, there are several ways to get
assistance.

### Ed Q&A Forum

The first place you should try and ask your question is on the Ed
[Ed forum](https://us.edstem.org/courses/2334/). Details on using *Ed* can be
found in the Welcome post there. 

### Videocall on Discord

If you have a very specific question, something that would require sharing
a large portion of your solution, or you are unsure how exactly to phrase your
question for Ed, you can request a videocall with the staff. You can do so on
Discord, using the *QuestionQueue* bot.

The question queue will be open **every weekday from 9:00 to 13:00**. If you
send the *QuestionQueue* bot a direction message starting with `!ask` and then
followed by your question, you will be added to the queue. The staff will take
videocalls from the queue in the order they are asked, and you will be notified
by the *QuestionQueue* bot when it is your turn.

### Werkcollege at Science Park

Once a week there will also be a werkcollege at Science Park, which will
replace the Discord video calls for that day. You can sit there, bring your
laptop to work, meet your fellow students, and ask the staff questions. The
schedule for the werkcolleges can be found on [Datanose](https://datanose.nl/#course[90802]).

### Zoom meetings

There will be Zoom meetings scheduled twice a week, once on **Wednesday at
15:00** and once on **Friday at 15:00**. These meetings will be used to discuss
progress and answer questions. In addition, these meetings may also be used to
give lectures, when there are parts of the theory that require more
explanation. You can also request a topic be discussed in more depth at these
meetings, which then may be covered at the next meeting.

### Email the staff

If you have personal matters to discuss or other questions that do not fit any
of the formats above, you can email the course staff at <minorai@mprog.nl> 

## Passing the course

The programming and writing assignment will both be graded on a 1 to 10 scale.
and at the end of the course an average for both these elements will be
computed. The SOWISO exercises have automatic feedback, so they will only be
graded on a *pass/fail* basis. Completing all the chapters is required in order
to recieve a pass for this element.

If all elements are completed satisfactorily, your final grade for the course
is computed as:

    30% programming average + 30% written average + 40% exam grade

### Programming Grades

All programming notebooks should run from top to bottom without errors, using
`Cell > Run All`. Your grade for the programming notebooks depends on 3
factors: Correctness of the produced output, answers to the open questions, and
the style and design of the code.

The main goal of the programming notebooks in ML1 is **not** to learn
programming, but to better understand the algorithms you are implementing. Your
answers to the open question and checking that the produced output for each
step makes sense, are the main ways to show this understanding. Writing clear
code with good comments is also only possible when you understand what you're
implementing well enough. However, for the first 2 modules style and design
will not be included in your grade, as you'll still be learning what those
concepts entail in the *Python for Data Processing* course.

If all coding cells are completed, all open questions are answered and your
notebook runs top to bottom without errors, your grade starts at a 6. The
remainder of your grade is then determined as follows:

* 0 - Some code cells produce incorrect or incomplete results. Answers to some open questions are incorrect or lack motivations.

* 1 - All code cells produce mostly correct results, but may still contain small mistakes. Same goes for the answers to open questions. Style and design have had some attention, but can be improved.

* 2 - All code cells produce correct results. Answers to all open questions are correct and are motivated. Style and design are good.

* 3 - All code cells produce correct and nicely formatted results. Answers to all open questions are correct and consistently well motivated based on the theory of the algorithm. Style and design are very good.

* 4 - Above, and in addition: Output, answers and code cells are beyond what is expected for the course.

### Writing Grades

The writing assignments for this course might be different from writing
assignments you've done in your own studies. We'll start by outlining the
basic concept, in order to avoid confusion of what you are exactly graded on.

The most important aspect of your writing assignments is to show you've read
the week's material and have thought carefully about the accompanying
questions. Some questions might even just ask your opinion, which means all
that is required is that you've thought about the topic enough to clearly argue
*why* you think it is one way or the other. Specifically, this also means that
not every statement you make necessarily requires a reference or citation.
However, if you do look up other sources as part of formulating your answers,
you can of course use and cite them. 

If your writing contains a sufficient number of words answering each of the
questions from the assignment, while referencing the concepts from the reading
material, your grade starts at a 6. The remainder of your grade is then
determined as follows:

* 0 - A concept from the reading material may be misrepresented or missing. Arguments are not structured clearly or fail to motivate some part of the answer.

* 1 - The writing shows understanding of the concepts of the reading material, but there might be small inaccuracies. Answers are motivated, but some motivations could have gone more in depth. 

* 2 - The writing shows clear understanding of the reading material and how the concepts therein relate to the questions asked. All answers are well motivated using these same concepts. 

* 3 - Above, and in addition: The writing may use other sources or examples from the author's own field of study to provide relevant novel perspectives. All arguments are well structured and combine into a single cohesive answer to the questions asked.

* 4 - Above, and in addition: The writing as a whole is beyond what is expected for the course.

### Exam

The exam at the end of the course will be an oral exam consisting mainly of 
open questions on the theory and algorithms covered. More details on the exam
will follow later.

## Academic honesty

This course's philosophy on academic honesty is best stated as "be reasonable." The course recognizes that interactions with classmates and others can facilitate mastery of the course's material. However, there remains a line between enlisting the help of another and submitting the work of another. This policy characterizes both sides of that line.

The essence of all work that you submit to this course must be your own. Collaboration on problem sets is not permitted except to the extent that you may ask classmates and others for help so long as that help does not reduce to another doing your work for you. Generally speaking, when asking for help, you may show your code to others, but you may not view theirs, so long as you and they respect this policy's other constraints. Collaboration on the course's test and quiz is not permitted at all.

Below are rules of thumb that (inexhaustively) characterize acts that the course considers reasonable and not reasonable. If in doubt as to whether some act is reasonable, do not commit it until you solicit and receive approval in writing from the course's heads. Acts considered not reasonable by the course are handled harshly.

### Reasonable

- Communicating with classmates about problem sets' problems in English (or some other spoken language).

- Discussing the course's material with others in order to understand it better.

- Helping a classmate identify a bug in his or her code at office hours, elsewhere, or even online, as by viewing, compiling, or running his or her code, even on your own computer.

- Incorporating a few lines of code that you find online or elsewhere into your own code, provided that those lines are not themselves solutions to assigned problems and that you cite the lines' origins.

- Reviewing past semesters' quizzes and solutions thereto.

- Sending or showing code that you've written to someone, possibly a classmate, so that he or she might help you identify and fix a bug.

- Sharing a few lines of your own code online so that others might help you identify and fix a bug.

- Turning to the course's heads for help or receiving help from the course's heads during the quiz or test.

- Turning to the web or elsewhere for instruction beyond the course's own, for references, and for solutions to technical difficulties, but not for outright solutions to problem set's problems or your own final project.

- Whiteboarding solutions to problem sets with others using diagrams or pseudocode but not actual code.

- Working with (and even paying) a tutor to help you with the course, provided the tutor does not do your work for you.

### Not Reasonable

- Accessing a solution to some problem prior to (re-)submitting your own.

- Asking a classmate to see his or her solution to a problem set's problem before (re-)submitting your own.

- Decompiling, deobfuscating, or disassembling the staff's solutions to problem sets.

- Failing to cite (as with comments) the origins of code or techniques that you discover outside of the course's own lessons and integrate into your own work, even while respecting this policy's other constraints.

- Giving or showing to a classmate a solution to a problem set's problem when it is he or she, and not you, who is struggling to solve it.

- Looking at another individual's work during the test or quiz.

- Paying or offering to pay an individual for work that you may submit as (part of) your own.

- Providing or making available solutions to problem sets to individuals who might take this course in the future.

- Searching for or soliciting outright solutions to problem sets online or elsewhere.

- Splitting a problem set's workload with another individual and combining your work.

- Submitting (after possibly modifying) the work of another individual beyond the few lines allowed herein.

- Submitting the same or similar work to this course that you have submitted or will submit to another.

- Submitting work to this course that you intend to use outside of the course (e.g., for a job) without prior approval from the course's heads.

- Turning to humans (besides the course's heads) for help or receiving help from humans (besides the course's heads) during the quiz or test.

- Viewing another's solution to a problem set's problem and basing your own solution on it.

In all cases we follow the directives regarding fraud and plagiarism of the
University of Amsterdam and of the Computer Science
BSc programme. Find them here in [English] and [Dutch].

[Dutch]: http://uva.nl/plagiaat
[English]: https://student.uva.nl/en/content/az/plagiarism-and-fraud/plagiarism-and-fraud.html
