
## Understanding AI systems

For the last writing assignment of this course, we'll take another look at AI
systems mentioned in news articles. Having spent the last few months studying
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, you should now have a lot more
background to understand what modern AI systems are actually learning.

You may pick your own topic for this writing assignment, but the topic should
be some system that contains AI/ML and has been covered in news articles
recently. Possible examples would include:

* Deepfake models used to create fake news videos.
* Microtargeting models used for political advertisements on social media.
* AlphaFold used to solve protein-folding, which can speed up vaccine development.

If you're unsure if the system/model you've chosen would be a good topic for
the writing assignment, you can of course discuss this with one of the
teachers.

For your chosen topic, you should answer the following question:

* Q1. What topic did you choose?

Search for news articles online referring to your topic and read at least 2
different ones.

* Q2. Which articles on the topic did you read?

* Q3. What impression did the news article give you of the system? Were the articles mostly negative, positive or neutral? Did any particular benefit or risk of the system stand out?

Next, try to find more in-depth articles or blog posts explaining the actual
working of the system. Your goal in reading these sources should be to get a
*general* idea of the inner workings of these systems.

Two important things to note: If your system contains a lot of technical
details you're not familiar with (like might be the case for the *AlphaFold*
topic), then it is not required that you study all the details to completely
understand the system. If exact details are hard to find for your system (like
might be the case for the *political microtargeting* topic), then it's enough
to try to speculate what such a system would look like, based on what
information you *can* find.

In all cases you should focus on a high-level understanding of what the system
learns or does. Is it a machine learning system or another type of AI?  If so,
is it supervised or unsupervised learning? What type of prediction does it
make?  What would the (training) data for this system look like? What types of
algorithm(s) do you think are part of this system?

* Q4. Which other sources did you find?

* Q5. Give your own high level description / speculation of what type of AI is used in this system based on the sources you've found. Your answer here should go into some detail, but full complete detail is not required. Try to limit your answer to about 400 words maximum.

* Q6. Describe the type(s) of data required for this system to learn / function, if any. What would this data look like? Where might this data be collected from or how could this data be generated?

Lastly, compare the idea you had of the system based solely on the news article
to your image after looking at the additional sources.

* Q7. Were there any surprising difference or insights you had after looking at the additional sources? What stood out most to you?

